
								"Molson"


Introduction : 

Molson is the Canadian division of the world's fifth-largest brewing company, the Molson Coors Brewing Company. It is the second oldest company in Canada after the Hudson's Bay Company. Molson's first brewery was located on the St. Lawrence River in Montreal where the Molson family continues to maintain its headquarters today.


History :

Founded in Montreal in 1786, Molson Canada is the oldest brewery in North America and continues to produce beer on the site of the original brewery. The company brews and markets a number of the most popular brands of beer in Canada. Domestic labels include Molson Canadian, Molson Export, Molson Dry, Pilsner, Rickard’s and Creemore Springs. Through partnerships with other major brewers, Molson Canada also offers several American and other brands, including Coors Light, Corona, Miller Genuine Draft, Foster's Lager and Tiger. Molson employs 3,000 people in Canada and operates six breweries in locations across the country (Vancouver, Toronto, Montreal, Edmonton, Moncton and St. John's), including the Creemore micro-brewery in Ontario. Molson Canada is part of the Molson Coors Brewing Company.

Founded by John Molson in Montreal in 1786, Molson brewery is the second oldest company in Canada, after the Hudson's Bay Company. The Montreal facility is the oldest brewery in North America, with operations ongoing on the site of the original brewery since the time of founding. Although the plant has undergone numerous transformations in the past 222 years, the cellars once used to store beer are still intact beneath the current building.

Not long after his arrival in Montreal in 1782, Molson sensed the market potential for beer in the then British colony. Prices for wine, rum and port were rising and an influx of English and Irish immigrants were particularly partial to beer. When he became of legal age, Molson used the money inherited from his parents to acquire a small brewery housed in a wooden building on the shores of the St Lawrence, just outside the fortifications of the burgeoning City of Montreal.

Molson worked hard to perfect the brewing process. He returned to England to purchase the finest quality barley seeds. Upon his return, he offered the seeds free of charge to neighbouring Montreal farmers who agreed to grow them to satisfy the brewery's need for malt. Molson delivered his first brew in 1786, only six weeks after taking the helm. Priced at just five cents a bottle, his brew sold very well.


Organization : 

Molson Coors executive offices are located in Montreal, Quebec and Denver, Colorado. The Canadian operational headquarters are located in Toronto (in addition to several breweries across Canada). United Kingdom headquarters are in Burton upon Trent.

Molson is part-owner of Brewers Retail Inc., operator of The Beer Store retail chain, which—protected by legislation—has an over 90% market share of Ontario beer sales. Molson owns 50% of Brewers Distribution Limited in Western Canada.

Molson bought Creemore Springs Brewery on 22 April 2005. Operations of Molson Coors in Brazil was sold to the Mexican group FEMSA in 2006.

On October 9, 2007, SABMiller and Molson Coors agreed to combine their U.S. operations in a joint venture called Miller Coors. SABMiller is to own 58% of the unit, which is to operate in the U.S. and Puerto Rico but not Canada, where Molson Coors is strongest. Molson Coors is to own 42%, but the parties are to have equal voting power.
