
							" Rogers "

Introduction : 

Rogers Communications Inc. (TSX: RCI.A, RCI.B, NYSE: RCI) is one of Canada's largest communications companies, particularly in the field of wireless communications and cable television, with additional telecommunications and mass media assets. It is headquartered in the Rogers Building in Toronto, Ontario.

The company considers its history to date back to the Rogers Vacuum Tube Company founded by Edward S. Rogers Sr., which started Toronto radio station CFRB (RB stands for "Rogers Batteryless"), but was later acquired by outside interests. The current company's earliest direct predecessors were started by his son, Edward S. "Ted" Rogers: Rogers Radio Broadcasting Ltd., which acquired CHFI-FM in 1960, and Aldred-Rogers Broadcasting, a partnership with Joel Aldred which helped launch CFTO-TV in 1961. Rogers later bought out Aldred and started the current cable and wireless operations.

Rogers Communications's primary competitor is Bell Canada, which has a similar portfolio of wireless, television, and telephone services, particularly in eastern and central Canada. The company also competes nationally with Telus for wireless services, Shaw Direct for television service, and various other media companies in the broadcasting industry such as CTVglobemedia.

On March 29, 2009 it was announced that Nadir Mohamed would succeed Ted Rogers as the new President and Chief Executive Officer of the company.


History :

The company began with Edward S. Rogers Sr., who had envisioned radio as an electric pipeline, reaching into people's homes to entertain, inform and educate.

In 1925, Rogers Sr. invented the world's first alternating current (AC) radio tube, which then enabled radios to be powered by ordinary household electric current. This was a dramatic breakthrough in technology and it became the key factor in popularizing radio reception. After this invention radios became far more commonplace.

In 1931, Rogers Sr. was awarded an experimental television licence in Canada. He was working on radar when on May 6, 1939 he died at the young age of 38. He left a widow, Velma, and a five-year-old son, Edward. His business interests were sold. However, his son Edward (Ted Rogers) was determined to carry on his father's legacy.


Broadcasting :

Rogers Broadcasting operates 51 Canadian radio stations (Rogers Radio), (36 FM and 10 AM radio stations) including three FM stations launched in the Maritimes in October 2005; Omni Television, which operates two multicultural television stations in Ontario (OMNI.1 and OMNI.2) as well as one in Vancouver (Channel M) acquired in April 2008; Citytv acquired in 2007; which operates 5 stations in Toronto, Winnipeg, Calgary, Edmonton and Vancouver; Rogers Sportsnet, a specialty sports television service licensed to provide regional sports programming across Canada; The Shopping Channel, Canada's only nationally televised shopping service and The Biography Channel Canada, acquired outright in August 2006 when Rogers bought out the 40% stake owned by Calgary's Shaw Communications and A&E Television Networks' 20% ownership.

Rogers also is a partner in OLN, TVtropolis, Viewers Choice and is a two-thirds owner of G4 Canada with Comcast.

Some of the better known radio outlets are CHFI Toronto, CJCL Toronto (The FAN 590), CFTR Toronto (680 News), and various stations operating under the Jack FM brand. In summer 2006, Rogers acquired five stations from OK Radio in Alberta and, with regulatory approval, will be operating in Edmonton, Fort McMurray and Grande Prairie. Existing clusters of stations are in Vancouver-Victoria-Whistler, Calgary-Lethbridge, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Kitchener and Halifax-Moncton-Saint John, NB.

